Friends here our concept is for loop syntax is see there are
different types of syntaxes are there for your
for loop or we can use for loop in different ways.
Let me go with one by one.
The very first one is basic for loop and either syntax for your basic for loop.
And here if you observe there is a variable.
This is nothing but simply variable name.
You can take any valid variable name here.
And here you have to provide some list of values,
as we have seen in our introduction video.
And between do and done yacht, right?
Some number of lines,
whatever the lens you want to repeat for n number of times.
And this block between do and done,
whatever the lines are there,
that is called simply for block.
Now based on these values,
this block will repeat n number of times.
Suppose in the list of Alice U-Haul to values,
then this block will repeat two times.
Let me show you that with a simple example.
Suppose I am writing a simple shell script.
Let me take basic for loop, dot SH.
Let me read the very first line.
Has she bundling bin bash.
And here, start with your loop.
For each value, I can take any name based on my requirement.
Each value I'm taking in,
I am providing suppose 123 values,
then do, and then first compute your syntax.
Otherwise you'll get some syntax errors between these.
Any logic, whatever you want to repeat for three times Y3,
ten, because you mentioned here three values.
Now let me simply a code.
This is a loop.
That means that line will repeat three times because you have
three values in your list of values plays in your for loop syntax.
So in this place, we have three values.
See that these three values.
Now basically, whenever if you run your shell, skip,
your for loop will repeat this block for block these many times.
And while executing at very first time,
automatically the value one will store into each value.
And in case if you need this,
each value inside of your for blog, you can use it.
If you use.
That value will be one automatically.
And for loop will repeat automatically second time also,
while excluding second time, you're,
each value will become two.
Now, as of now,
I am not using this each value inside of my fourth block.
If you have a requirement, you can use it.
Otherwise simply can skip it.
Now see that I am running our code.
Let me provide ya'll and we probably execution permissions.
Now see you are getting this is a loop,
this loop three times.
But I want to print values,
whatever the values are automatically coming into your each value variable.
I want to print it that also, yes,
you can print it simply inside of your for loop.
Just use echo for this iteration.
So whenever if your code is executing first-time,
there is first iteration, second time, second iteration.
So for this iteration,
each value E, It Is there anywhere,
each value a variable that's a.
Now let me save it and run it.
See, you are core ones.
I'm running.
That's these two lines are repeating three
times by while executing at very first time or for first iteration.
Automatically this each value is one.
In case if you use that each value inside of your logic,
then that value is one.
While excluding second-time or for second iteration,
automatically, each value is two.
And here, you know, you take any sequence of numbers randomly
can provide on numbers like three to 4002012,
something like that, that is your wish.
And not only values,
you can also provide some filenames.
And instead of providing file in directly,
you can write some commands such that that command output you can
provide in place of list of values for your for loop.
I mean, suppose you,
If I run ls command in the current location,
you're letting some list of files.
This list of files I want to take one by one by using for loop.
Then see how I can implement that.
Let me open newer shell script.
I'm commenting this line.
Not only numbers, you can also provide some alphabets.
No, I'm writing for each file.
Now I am taking phile means I'm taking command output,
ls command output in Alaska monopoly are getting files.
Just for our understanding,
for our clarity purpose, I'm circling variable him as each file,
let's say in ls, c,
if I directly plays a command in your for loop syntax,
it will take as a value only.
Now as of now this is like a value. Lsd is one value.
That's why if I run my shell script,
it will run only one time.
And that too, at that time,
it will take value as ls c, that is a.
Sorry, we are using their variable MS,
each file, but we are trying to print each value.
Let me modify this variable name.
Each file.
Now see the output.
What you are getting, you are getting simply LS.
But my intention is a less output.
I want to take Alice output,
I want to substitute in place of this,
in place of this Ls.
We know how to store the command output India variable using
the same syntax you how to use even in U-S loop.
Also. Instead of writing LS,
If I write dollar less,
then the command output will be substituted here.
That means these files are shooting in your for
loop so that your for loop will repeat this many number of times.
How many files here we are having that many number of times.
It will repeat. 60 times you'd we'll repeat.
Now.
See, first let me show you your core.
And I'm running C.
There isn't 60 times it has been repeated.
But while repeating each and every time automatically this
picking different filename, letrec.
So there's just a basic introduction,
basic syntax as explanation for your for loop will have a practice session.
In that we'll do some practice with your for loops.
The syntax is C language type for loop.
Let me get the syntax for that.
This is the syntax for your for loop,
for C language type for loop.
If you observe here for two parenthesis ending with two parentheses.
Then very first value is insulation,
semicolon condition, semicolon, increment or decrement.
And between do and done your writing our four block.
So you can write here a number of commands or lines or statements or logic.
Then how this for loop will execute, how it will work.
So you never previous basic for loop.
The lines which are there between do and done,
or the forever block will execute n number of times.
That n number of times based on
how many values you are having in place of list of values.
But here, let me explain with that with a simple example.
Suppose I am writing c type for loop, dot SH,
bin bash for two parenthesis.
I'm defining, see.
The very first one is insolation.
You have to initialize some variable.
Let me initialize count.
You can take any variable I'm initializing count variable equals to one, then semicolon.
Then condition, I am writing condition as counter less than or equal to ten.
Then I'm increasing counter value by plus plus.
So first let me write a syntax so that he can understand.
Now between do undone or for,
for block, I am writing only one line.
This is c type for loop.
Then how it will execute.
Very simple.
Whenever if you run your for loop, I mean,
whenever if you run your shell script anyway,
you don't have any other lines are of that for loop.
So it will start with for loop.
And this for loop first,
take this variable, it will look into initialization place.
So there c and t count variable is there and that value is assigned with one.
With that one, it will compare this condition.
So County's 11 less than equals ten, yes, true.
If it is true, then your for loop will execute the lines which are there between B17.
Once. After executing the lines which are there between do and done immediately,
your for loop will increase your count variable value we are being plus,
plus means whatever the previous value is.
Therefore, County just increased by one.
Now previously this one,
now we are increasing to two.
Then with other two.
Again, this condition we will check, be clear.
This initialization will be taken by your for loop only once.
That too at very fast.
After that, it will skip that part.
While executing second time.
Before executing Second time,
it will increase your count value.
Previously it was one,
now it will become two.
Now two less than equal to ten.
Yes, true.
If it is through your for loop,
again will execute the code which is there going to London.
So second time is over.
Then will go for a third time before going to exclude thought time.
Again, it will increase your count variable value.
Previously it was two.
Now it will become 33 less than or equal certain.
Likewise, if countless Monaco Student 33 less than Kristen,
it'll execute once again this logic.
Likewise, it will increase this value.
You will check this condition until this condition is true. This for loop.
We'll rerun the sunblock, let's say.
Now.
Let me provide the exclusion conditions for that.
See your code once.
And I am running ten times, it is repeating.
Now instead of displaying echoed,
this is c type of four loop.
I want to display numbers from one to ten by using for loop.
Of course, no need to use for loop,
you have a sequence command.
You can use 1-2,
suppose 20 or ten by using the sequence command also.
But this output I want to,
I want to get using for loop.
It is possible with you a simple for loop,
C type of four loop.
Let me modify.
Initially I'm taking County coastal went because I wanted to print from one.
Then I will check condition up to 200.
Then instead of printing Echo,
this is c type of loop.
I will remove the entire, the entire thing and simply I will display Dollar Coin.
Now, let me save it.
See your code and run it.
You are getting 12102020 because conditioned is up to 20.
Once your account value is greater than 20,
then this condition will become failed,
then your for loop will stop.
And one more thing.
Before you were for Luby,
if how any lines those lands will exclude and after your for loop,
if you have any lines after completion of your for loop,
that line also will exclude.
So you should be clear with that.
Let me write some lines.
So I am writing here clear command and echo.
We are working with loops.
So before starting your for loop,
there is one echo command.
And after completion of for loop,
I can read some other logical.
So here I am writing.
We completed four loop.
After completion of your for loop.
This line will execute because they are in sequence.
This is first line, the second line.
And this entire thing as startling,
after completion of third line automatically Portland coordinate
x could not say, no, let me save it.
See your code and run it.
Sees output.
First we are clearing because clear command is that,
that output, it cleared the screen.
Then we are working with loops.
Then using your for loop,
you are getting this output after completion of your for loop in your code.
You how last echo command,
that output you are getting here.
That's a fine.
Now the last syntax is infinity for New.
Without defining any values,
initialization condition, increment and decrement.
If you run your for loop, it will repeat.
It will execute for infinite number of times.
Let me write VA infinitely Lu infinity for loop dot SH.
I'm reading bin bash.
Before starting your for loop just I am writing echo,
and this is a for loop.
Then let me write for simply parentheses, semicolon, semicolon parenthesis.
Do done.
For our understanding purpose,
what I am doing is a code.
This is infinity.
Lu, An awful that I'm writing some sleep command,
sleep for 1 second.
That means your for loop will execute first this line.
After that it'll include second command, sleep one.
We know sleep one means it will wait for 1 second,
then will go for next iteration.
Let me save it.
See you are core. Now I'm running C, the output.
Yeah, I need to provide execution permissions.
Now I'm running our code.
We see that this is infinity loop.
They're getting infinite number of times now it will execute.
If you want to stop you how to use Control C on your keyboard.
But logically you can stop that.
As I've not don't wherever that but I am writing a condition.
Whenever if you get a chance.
I mean, while working with scripts there,
I will discuss in detail about this.
But as of now, simply I am writing some condition.
Before starting your loop.
I am defining any count.
Then inside of your loop,
just, I'm incrementing our counter variable.
After asleep, I am writing one.
You've conditioned if, if condition if two equals two,
if count is equals to ten,
then I'm using break.
Now let me save it.
And I'm running. Before that.
Just see your core.
What happened to 100?
If you've, sorry, you had to end with the affine,
not with the if right.
Now you can also see that if I don't end up with the properly if I don't end up properly,
it is something like a yes.
No, clear my screen now see your core now run it.
Because of this first Jaco you are getting this one, then 12345678910.
It is stopping.
So whenever you are County coast to ten, I'm using break.
Break means.
Actually it is a loop control statement.
Whenever this line is executing,
simply your for loop will stop,
even though if you have a remaining iterations.
But whenever break is executing,
then your for loop will terminate.
And after four movie,
how many lanes that lays will execute?
Let me write some line after your for loop.
Echo.
Out of loop. Only it will stop for loop,
not your entire shell script.
You have to clear with that
2345678910 out of loop,
you are getting this line you are getting.
But actually it will repeat infinite number of times.
But I'm controlling that after ten iterations,
after ten iterations, intentionally,
I am stopping my for loop.
So using break.
So break is it loop control statement will
discuss in detail a boater loop control statements.
So as, as i've not just to do practice with syntaxes,
in next session, we will do some real time practice. Thank you.